src/doc/man/ganesha-core-config.rst, before:

===================================================================
ganesha-core-config -- NFS Ganesha Core Configuration File
===================================================================

.. program:: ganesha-core-config


SYNOPSIS
==========================================================

| /etc/ganesha/ganesha.conf

DESCRIPTION
==========================================================

NFS-Ganesha reads the configuration data from:
| /etc/ganesha/ganesha.conf

This file lists NFS related core config options.

NFS_CORE_PARAM {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Core parameters:

NFS_Port (uint16, range 0 to UINT16_MAX, default 2049)
    Port number used by NFS Protocol.

MNT_Port (uint16, range 0 to UINT16_MAX, default 0)
    Port number used by MNT Protocol.

NLM_Port (uint16, range 0 to UINT16_MAX, default 0)
    Port number used by NLM Protocol.

Rquota_Port (uint16, range 0 to UINT16_MAX, default 875)
    Port number used by Rquota Protocol.

Bind_addr(IPv4 or IPv6 addr, default 0.0.0.0)
    The address to which to bind for our listening port.

NFS_Program(uint32, range 1 to INT32_MAX, default 100003)
    RPC program number for NFS.

MNT_Program(uint32, range 1 to INT32_MAX, default 100005)
    RPC program number for MNT.

NLM_Program(uint32, range 1 to INT32_MAX, default 100021)
    RPC program number for NLM.

Drop_IO_Errors(bool, default false)
    For NFSv3, whether to drop rather than reply to requests yielding I/O
    errors. It results in client retry.

Drop_Inval_Errors(bool, default false)
    For NFSv3, whether to drop rather than reply to requests yielding invalid
    argument errors.  False by default and settable with Drop_Inval_Errors.

Drop_Delay_Errors(bool, default false)
    For NFSv3, whether to drop rather than reply to requests yielding delay
    errors.  False by default and settable with Drop_Delay_Errors.

Plugins_Dir(path, default "/usr/lib64/ganesha")
    Path to the directory containing server specific modules

Enable_NFS_Stats(bool, default true)
    Whether to collect perfomance statistics. By default the perfomance
    counting is enabled. Enable_NFS_Stats can be enabled or disabled
    dynamically via ganesha_stats.

Enable_Fast_Stats(bool, default false)
    Whether to use fast stats. If enabled this will skip statistics counters
    collection for per client and per export.

Enable_FSAL_Stats(bool, default false)
    Whether to count and collect FSAL specific performance statistics.
    Enable_FSAL_Stats can be enabled or disabled dynamically via ganesha_stats

Enable_FULLV3_Stats(bool, default false)
    Whether to count and collect "detailed statistics" for NFSv3.
    Enable_FULLV3_Stats can be enabled or disabled dynamically via
    ganesha_stats.

Enable_FULLV4_Stats(bool, default false)
    Whether to count and collect "detailed statistics" for NFSv4.
    Enable_FULLV4_Stats can be enabled or disabled dynamically via
    ganesha_stats.

Short_File_Handle(bool, default false)
    Whether to use short NFS file handle to accommodate VMware NFS client.
    Enable this if you have a VMware NFSv3 client. VMware NFSv3 client has a max
    limit of 56 byte file handles.

Manage_Gids_Expiration(int64, range 0 to 7*24*60*60, default 30*60)
    How long the server will trust information it got by calling getgroups()
    when "Manage_Gids = TRUE" is used in a export entry.

heartbeat_freq(uint32, range 0 to 5000 default 1000)
    Frequency of dbus health heartbeat in ms.

Enable_NLM(bool, default true)
    Whether to support the Network Lock Manager protocol.

Blocked_Lock_Poller_Interval(int64, range 0 to 180, default 10)
    Polling interval for blocked lock polling thread

Protocols(enum list, default [3,4,9P])
    Possible values:
        3, 4, NFS3, NFS4, V3, V4, NFSv3, NFSv4, 9P

    The protocols that Ganesha will listen for.  This is a hard limit, as this
    list determines which sockets are opened.  This list can be restricted per
    export, but cannot be expanded.

NSM_Use_Caller_Name(bool, default false)
    Whether to use the supplied name rather than the IP address in NSM
    operations.

Clustered(bool, default true)
    Whether this Ganesha is part of a cluster of Ganeshas. Its vendor specific
    option.

fsid_device(bool, default false)
    Whether to use device major/minor for fsid.

mount_path_pseudo(bool, default false)
    Whether to use Pseudo (true) or Path (false) for NFS v3 and 9P mounts.

    This option defaults to false for backward compatibility, however, for
    new setups, it's strongly recommended to be set true since it then means
    the same server path for the mount is used for both v3 and v4.x.

Dbus_Name_Prefix
    DBus name prefix. Required if one wants to run multiple ganesha instances on
    single host. The prefix should be different for every ganesha instance. If
    this is set, the dbus name will be <prefix>.org.ganesha.nfsd

Enable_UDP(bool, default true)
    Whether to create UDP listeners for NFS, NLM, RQUOTA, and register
    them with portmapper. Set to false, e.g., to run as non-root.

Parameters controlling TCP DRC behavior:
----------------------------------------

DRC_Disabled(bool, default false)
    Whether to disable the DRC entirely.

TCP_Npart(uint32, range 1 to 20, default 1)
    Number of partitions in the tree for the TCP DRC.

DRC_TCP_Size(uint32, range 1 to 32767, default 1024)
    Maximum number of requests in a transport's DRC.

DRC_TCP_Cachesz(uint32, range 1 to 255, default 127)
    Number of entries in the O(1) front-end cache to a TCP Duplicate Request
    Cache.

DRC_TCP_Hiwat(uint32, range 1 to 256, default 64)
    High water mark for a TCP connection's DRC at which to start retiring
    entries if we can.

DRC_TCP_Recycle_Npart(uint32, range 1 to 20, default 7)
    Number of partitions in the recycle tree that holds per-connection DRCs so
    they can be used on reconnection (or recycled.)

DRC_TCP_Recycle_Expire_S(uint32, range 0 to 60*60, default 600)
    How long to wait (in seconds) before freeing the DRC of a disconnected
    client.

DRC_TCP_Checksum(bool, default true)
    Whether to use a checksum to match requests as well as the XID


Parameters controlling UDP DRC behavior:
----------------------------------------

DRC_UDP_Npart(uint32, range 1 to 100, default 7)
    Number of partitions in the tree for the UDP DRC.

DRC_UDP_Size(uint32, range 512, to 32768, default 32768)
    Maximum number of requests in the UDP DRC.

DRC_UDP_Cachesz(uint32, range 1 to 2047, default 599)
    Number of entries in the O(1) front-end cache to the UDP Duplicate Request
    Cache.

DRC_UDP_Hiwat(uint32, range 1 to 32768, default 16384)
    High water mark for the UDP DRC at which to start retiring entries if we can

DRC_UDP_Checksum(bool, default true)
    Whether to use a checksum to match requests as well as the XID.


Parameters affecting the relation with TIRPC:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RPC_Max_Connections(uint32, range 1 to 10000, default 1024)
    Maximum number of connections for TIRPC.

RPC_Idle_Timeout_S(uint32, range 0 to 60*60, default 300)
    Idle timeout (seconds). Default to 300 seconds.

MaxRPCSendBufferSize(uint32, range 1 to 1048576*9, default 1048576)
    Size of RPC send buffer.

MaxRPCRecvBufferSize(uint32, range 1 to 1048576*9, default 1048576)
    Size of RPC receive buffer.

RPC_Ioq_ThrdMax(uint32, range 1 to 1024*128 default 200)
    TIRPC ioq max simultaneous io threads

RPC_GSS_Npart(uint32, range 1 to 1021, default 13)
    Partitions in GSS ctx cache table

RPC_GSS_Max_Ctx(uint32, range 1 to 1048576, default 16384)
    Max GSS contexts in cache. Default 16k

RPC_GSS_Max_Gc(uint32, range 1 to 1048576, default 200)
    Max entries to expire in one idle check


Parameters for TCP:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Enable_TCP_keepalive(bool, default true)
    Whether tcp sockets should use SO_KEEPALIVE

TCP_KEEPCNT(UINT32, range 0 to 255, default 0 -> use system defaults)
    Maximum number of TCP probes before dropping the connection

TCP_KEEPIDLE(UINT32, range 0 to 65535, default 0 -> use system defautls)
    Idle time before TCP starts to send keepalive probes

TCP_KEEPINTVL(INT32, range 0 to 65535, default 0 -> use system defaults)
    Time between each keepalive probe


NFS_IP_NAME {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Index_Size(uint32, range 1 to 51, default 17)
    Configuration for hash table for NFS Name/IP map.

Expiration_Time(uint32, range 1 to 60*60*24, default 3600)
    Expiration time for ip-name mappings.


NFS_KRB5 {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**PrincipalName(string, default "nfs")**

KeytabPath(path, default "")
    Kerberos keytab.

CCacheDir(path, default "/var/run/ganesha")
    The ganesha credential cache.

Active_krb5(bool, default false)
    Whether to activate Kerberos 5. Defaults to true (if Kerberos support is
    compiled in)


NFSv4 {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Graceless(bool, default false)
    Whether to disable the NFSv4 grace period.

Lease_Lifetime(uint32, range 0 to 120, default 60)
    The NFSv4 lease lifetime.

Grace_Period(uint32, range 0 to 180, default 90)
    The NFS grace period.

DomainName(string, default "localdomain")
    Domain to use if we aren't using the nfsidmap.

IdmapConf(path, default "/etc/idmapd.conf")
    Path to the idmap configuration file.

UseGetpwnam(bool, default false if using idmap, true otherwise)
    Whether to use local password (PAM, on Linux) rather than nfsidmap.

Allow_Numeric_Owners(bool, default true)
    Whether to allow bare numeric IDs in NFSv4 owner and group identifiers.

Only_Numeric_Owners(bool, default false)
    Whether to ONLY use bare numeric IDs in NFSv4 owner and group identifiers.

Delegations(bool, default false)
    Whether to allow delegations.

Deleg_Recall_Retry_Delay(uint32_t, range 0 to 10, default 1)
    Delay after which server will retry a recall in case of failures

pnfs_mds(bool, default false)
    Whether this a pNFS MDS server.
    For FSAL Gluster, if this is true, set pnfs_mds in gluster block as well.

pnfs_ds(bool, default false)
    Whether this a pNFS DS server.

RecoveryBackend(path, default "fs")
    Use different backend for client info:

    - fs : filesystem
    - fs_ng: filesystem (better resiliency)
    - rados_kv : rados key-value
    - rados_ng : rados key-value (better resiliency)
    - rados_cluster: clustered rados backend (active/active)

Minor_Versions(enum list, values [0, 1, 2], default [0, 1, 2])
    List of supported NFSV4 minor version numbers.

Slot_Table_Size(uint32, range 1 to 1024, default 64)
    Size of the NFSv4.1 slot table

RADOS_KV {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ceph_conf(string, no default)
    Connection to ceph cluster, should be file path for ceph configuration.

userid(path, no default)
    User ID to ceph cluster.

namespace(string, default NULL)
    RADOS Namespace in which to store objects

pool(string, default "nfs-ganesha")
    Pool for client info.

grace_oid(string, default "grace")
    Name of the object containing the rados_cluster grace DB

nodeid(string, default result of gethostname())
    Unique node identifier within rados_cluster

RADOS_URLS {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ceph_conf(string, no default)
    Connection to ceph cluster, should be file path for ceph configuration.

userid(path, no default)
    User ID to ceph cluster.

watch_url(url, no default)
    rados:// URL to watch for notifications of config changes. When a
    notification is received, the server will issue a SIGHUP to itself.

Commit message:

Stats for all ops by a client
By default only IO related stats for a client are collected.
To get more precise workload information, stats for all operations
carried by a client are helpful.
Made a provision to gather and extract stats for all ops requested
by a client. This stat gathering is not enabled by default. One can
enable and disable such stat gather using ganesha_stats interface.

Change-Id: I9ec5c6a1066294186e2f4c731cff87b28a0c3a26
Signed-off-by: Sachin Punadikar <psachin@in.ibm.com>

src/doc/man/ganesha-core-config.rst, after:

===================================================================
ganesha-core-config -- NFS Ganesha Core Configuration File
===================================================================

.. program:: ganesha-core-config


SYNOPSIS
==========================================================

| /etc/ganesha/ganesha.conf

DESCRIPTION
==========================================================

NFS-Ganesha reads the configuration data from:
| /etc/ganesha/ganesha.conf

This file lists NFS related core config options.

NFS_CORE_PARAM {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Core parameters:

NFS_Port (uint16, range 0 to UINT16_MAX, default 2049)
    Port number used by NFS Protocol.

MNT_Port (uint16, range 0 to UINT16_MAX, default 0)
    Port number used by MNT Protocol.

NLM_Port (uint16, range 0 to UINT16_MAX, default 0)
    Port number used by NLM Protocol.

Rquota_Port (uint16, range 0 to UINT16_MAX, default 875)
    Port number used by Rquota Protocol.

Bind_addr(IPv4 or IPv6 addr, default 0.0.0.0)
    The address to which to bind for our listening port.

NFS_Program(uint32, range 1 to INT32_MAX, default 100003)
    RPC program number for NFS.

MNT_Program(uint32, range 1 to INT32_MAX, default 100005)
    RPC program number for MNT.

NLM_Program(uint32, range 1 to INT32_MAX, default 100021)
    RPC program number for NLM.

Drop_IO_Errors(bool, default false)
    For NFSv3, whether to drop rather than reply to requests yielding I/O
    errors. It results in client retry.

Drop_Inval_Errors(bool, default false)
    For NFSv3, whether to drop rather than reply to requests yielding invalid
    argument errors.  False by default and settable with Drop_Inval_Errors.

Drop_Delay_Errors(bool, default false)
    For NFSv3, whether to drop rather than reply to requests yielding delay
    errors.  False by default and settable with Drop_Delay_Errors.

Plugins_Dir(path, default "/usr/lib64/ganesha")
    Path to the directory containing server specific modules

Enable_NFS_Stats(bool, default true)
    Whether to collect perfomance statistics. By default the perfomance
    counting is enabled. Enable_NFS_Stats can be enabled or disabled
    dynamically via ganesha_stats.

Enable_Fast_Stats(bool, default false)
    Whether to use fast stats. If enabled this will skip statistics counters
    collection for per client and per export.

Enable_FSAL_Stats(bool, default false)
    Whether to count and collect FSAL specific performance statistics.
    Enable_FSAL_Stats can be enabled or disabled dynamically via ganesha_stats

Enable_FULLV3_Stats(bool, default false)
    Whether to count and collect "detailed statistics" for NFSv3.
    Enable_FULLV3_Stats can be enabled or disabled dynamically via
    ganesha_stats.

Enable_FULLV4_Stats(bool, default false)
    Whether to count and collect "detailed statistics" for NFSv4.
    Enable_FULLV4_Stats can be enabled or disabled dynamically via
    ganesha_stats.

Enable_CLNT_AllOps_Stats(bool, default false)
    Whether to count and collect statistics for all NFS operations requested
    by NFS clients. Enable_CLNT_AllOps_Stats can be enabled or disabled
    dynamically via ganesha_stats.

Short_File_Handle(bool, default false)
    Whether to use short NFS file handle to accommodate VMware NFS client.
    Enable this if you have a VMware NFSv3 client. VMware NFSv3 client has a max
    limit of 56 byte file handles.

Manage_Gids_Expiration(int64, range 0 to 7*24*60*60, default 30*60)
    How long the server will trust information it got by calling getgroups()
    when "Manage_Gids = TRUE" is used in a export entry.

heartbeat_freq(uint32, range 0 to 5000 default 1000)
    Frequency of dbus health heartbeat in ms.

Enable_NLM(bool, default true)
    Whether to support the Network Lock Manager protocol.

Blocked_Lock_Poller_Interval(int64, range 0 to 180, default 10)
    Polling interval for blocked lock polling thread

Protocols(enum list, default [3,4,9P])
    Possible values:
        3, 4, NFS3, NFS4, V3, V4, NFSv3, NFSv4, 9P

    The protocols that Ganesha will listen for.  This is a hard limit, as this
    list determines which sockets are opened.  This list can be restricted per
    export, but cannot be expanded.

NSM_Use_Caller_Name(bool, default false)
    Whether to use the supplied name rather than the IP address in NSM
    operations.

Clustered(bool, default true)
    Whether this Ganesha is part of a cluster of Ganeshas. Its vendor specific
    option.

fsid_device(bool, default false)
    Whether to use device major/minor for fsid.

mount_path_pseudo(bool, default false)
    Whether to use Pseudo (true) or Path (false) for NFS v3 and 9P mounts.

    This option defaults to false for backward compatibility, however, for
    new setups, it's strongly recommended to be set true since it then means
    the same server path for the mount is used for both v3 and v4.x.

Dbus_Name_Prefix
    DBus name prefix. Required if one wants to run multiple ganesha instances on
    single host. The prefix should be different for every ganesha instance. If
    this is set, the dbus name will be <prefix>.org.ganesha.nfsd

Enable_UDP(bool, default true)
    Whether to create UDP listeners for NFS, NLM, RQUOTA, and register
    them with portmapper. Set to false, e.g., to run as non-root.

Parameters controlling TCP DRC behavior:
----------------------------------------

DRC_Disabled(bool, default false)
    Whether to disable the DRC entirely.

TCP_Npart(uint32, range 1 to 20, default 1)
    Number of partitions in the tree for the TCP DRC.

DRC_TCP_Size(uint32, range 1 to 32767, default 1024)
    Maximum number of requests in a transport's DRC.

DRC_TCP_Cachesz(uint32, range 1 to 255, default 127)
    Number of entries in the O(1) front-end cache to a TCP Duplicate Request
    Cache.

DRC_TCP_Hiwat(uint32, range 1 to 256, default 64)
    High water mark for a TCP connection's DRC at which to start retiring
    entries if we can.

DRC_TCP_Recycle_Npart(uint32, range 1 to 20, default 7)
    Number of partitions in the recycle tree that holds per-connection DRCs so
    they can be used on reconnection (or recycled.)

DRC_TCP_Recycle_Expire_S(uint32, range 0 to 60*60, default 600)
    How long to wait (in seconds) before freeing the DRC of a disconnected
    client.

DRC_TCP_Checksum(bool, default true)
    Whether to use a checksum to match requests as well as the XID


Parameters controlling UDP DRC behavior:
----------------------------------------

DRC_UDP_Npart(uint32, range 1 to 100, default 7)
    Number of partitions in the tree for the UDP DRC.

DRC_UDP_Size(uint32, range 512, to 32768, default 32768)
    Maximum number of requests in the UDP DRC.

DRC_UDP_Cachesz(uint32, range 1 to 2047, default 599)
    Number of entries in the O(1) front-end cache to the UDP Duplicate Request
    Cache.

DRC_UDP_Hiwat(uint32, range 1 to 32768, default 16384)
    High water mark for the UDP DRC at which to start retiring entries if we can

DRC_UDP_Checksum(bool, default true)
    Whether to use a checksum to match requests as well as the XID.


Parameters affecting the relation with TIRPC:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RPC_Max_Connections(uint32, range 1 to 10000, default 1024)
    Maximum number of connections for TIRPC.

RPC_Idle_Timeout_S(uint32, range 0 to 60*60, default 300)
    Idle timeout (seconds). Default to 300 seconds.

MaxRPCSendBufferSize(uint32, range 1 to 1048576*9, default 1048576)
    Size of RPC send buffer.

MaxRPCRecvBufferSize(uint32, range 1 to 1048576*9, default 1048576)
    Size of RPC receive buffer.

RPC_Ioq_ThrdMax(uint32, range 1 to 1024*128 default 200)
    TIRPC ioq max simultaneous io threads

RPC_GSS_Npart(uint32, range 1 to 1021, default 13)
    Partitions in GSS ctx cache table

RPC_GSS_Max_Ctx(uint32, range 1 to 1048576, default 16384)
    Max GSS contexts in cache. Default 16k

RPC_GSS_Max_Gc(uint32, range 1 to 1048576, default 200)
    Max entries to expire in one idle check


Parameters for TCP:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Enable_TCP_keepalive(bool, default true)
    Whether tcp sockets should use SO_KEEPALIVE

TCP_KEEPCNT(UINT32, range 0 to 255, default 0 -> use system defaults)
    Maximum number of TCP probes before dropping the connection

TCP_KEEPIDLE(UINT32, range 0 to 65535, default 0 -> use system defautls)
    Idle time before TCP starts to send keepalive probes

TCP_KEEPINTVL(INT32, range 0 to 65535, default 0 -> use system defaults)
    Time between each keepalive probe


NFS_IP_NAME {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Index_Size(uint32, range 1 to 51, default 17)
    Configuration for hash table for NFS Name/IP map.

Expiration_Time(uint32, range 1 to 60*60*24, default 3600)
    Expiration time for ip-name mappings.


NFS_KRB5 {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**PrincipalName(string, default "nfs")**

KeytabPath(path, default "")
    Kerberos keytab.

CCacheDir(path, default "/var/run/ganesha")
    The ganesha credential cache.

Active_krb5(bool, default false)
    Whether to activate Kerberos 5. Defaults to true (if Kerberos support is
    compiled in)


NFSv4 {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Graceless(bool, default false)
    Whether to disable the NFSv4 grace period.

Lease_Lifetime(uint32, range 0 to 120, default 60)
    The NFSv4 lease lifetime.

Grace_Period(uint32, range 0 to 180, default 90)
    The NFS grace period.

DomainName(string, default "localdomain")
    Domain to use if we aren't using the nfsidmap.

IdmapConf(path, default "/etc/idmapd.conf")
    Path to the idmap configuration file.

UseGetpwnam(bool, default false if using idmap, true otherwise)
    Whether to use local password (PAM, on Linux) rather than nfsidmap.

Allow_Numeric_Owners(bool, default true)
    Whether to allow bare numeric IDs in NFSv4 owner and group identifiers.

Only_Numeric_Owners(bool, default false)
    Whether to ONLY use bare numeric IDs in NFSv4 owner and group identifiers.

Delegations(bool, default false)
    Whether to allow delegations.

Deleg_Recall_Retry_Delay(uint32_t, range 0 to 10, default 1)
    Delay after which server will retry a recall in case of failures

pnfs_mds(bool, default false)
    Whether this a pNFS MDS server.
    For FSAL Gluster, if this is true, set pnfs_mds in gluster block as well.

pnfs_ds(bool, default false)
    Whether this a pNFS DS server.

RecoveryBackend(path, default "fs")
    Use different backend for client info:

    - fs : filesystem
    - fs_ng: filesystem (better resiliency)
    - rados_kv : rados key-value
    - rados_ng : rados key-value (better resiliency)
    - rados_cluster: clustered rados backend (active/active)

Minor_Versions(enum list, values [0, 1, 2], default [0, 1, 2])
    List of supported NFSV4 minor version numbers.

Slot_Table_Size(uint32, range 1 to 1024, default 64)
    Size of the NFSv4.1 slot table

RADOS_KV {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ceph_conf(string, no default)
    Connection to ceph cluster, should be file path for ceph configuration.

userid(path, no default)
    User ID to ceph cluster.

namespace(string, default NULL)
    RADOS Namespace in which to store objects

pool(string, default "nfs-ganesha")
    Pool for client info.

grace_oid(string, default "grace")
    Name of the object containing the rados_cluster grace DB

nodeid(string, default result of gethostname())
    Unique node identifier within rados_cluster

RADOS_URLS {}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ceph_conf(string, no default)
    Connection to ceph cluster, should be file path for ceph configuration.

userid(path, no default)
    User ID to ceph cluster.

watch_url(url, no default)
    rados:// URL to watch for notifications of config changes. When a
    notification is received, the server will issue a SIGHUP to itself.
